doc: add doc for osm-to-railjson (#344)
DGEXSolutions/osrd-website: content/docs/guides/osm_infra/generation.en.md

---
title: "How to generate an infra"

> linkTitle: "How to generate an infra"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How to generate infrastructure from OSM"
linkTitle: "How to generate infrastructure from OSM"
```

weight: 10

> description: Describe the steps to generate an open infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Describe the steps to generate an infrastructure from open data
```

> description: Describe the steps to generate an infrastructure from open data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Describe the steps to generate an infrastructure from OSM data
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

---

> 1. On [geofabrik](https://download.geofabrik.de) you need to download the `.osm.pbf` file corresponding to the area you want. Here we take Germany as an example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On [geofabrik](https://download.geofabrik.de), download the `.osm.pbf` file corresponding to the area you want. Here we take Germany as an example.
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

>     This is not mandatory, but we strongly recommend using [osmium](https://osmcode.org/osmium-tool/) to filter the `.osm.pbf` file with only the data needed by osm_to_railjson (which are nodes/ways/relations with the tag `railway` and relations with the tag `public_transport=stop_area`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This is not mandatory, but using [osmium](https://osmcode.org/osmium-tool/) is strongly recommended to filter the `.osm.pbf` file with only the data needed by osm_to_railjson. The tag `railway` is used on nodes, ways and relations, and the tag `public_transport=stop_area` is used on relations.
```

>     This is not mandatory, but using [osmium](https://osmcode.org/osmium-tool/) is strongly recommended to filter the `.osm.pbf` file with only the data needed by osm_to_railjson. The tag `railway` is used on nodes, ways and relations, and the tag `public_transport=stop_area` is used on relations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This is not mandatory, but using [osmium](https://osmcode.org/osmium-tool/) is strongly recommended to filter the `.osm.pbf` file with only the railway-related data needed by osm_to_railjson. The tag `railway` is used on nodes, ways and relations, and the tag `public_transport=stop_area` is used on relations.
```

Author: 6a016b4612d0c2dcad8205d6d547e91a1a4f5606

>     It can divide by 3 the time taken by osm_to_railjson.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This can divide by 3 the time taken by the osm_to_railjson generation.
```

    ```sh
    osmium tags-filter <path/to/germany.osm.pbf> nwr/railway r/public_transport=stop_area -o <path/to/germany.osm.pbf>
    ```

2. Launch conversion (release build of editoast and conversion can be long):
    ```sh
    cd ../../editoast
    cargo run --release -p osm_to_railjson -- <path/to/germany.osm.pbf> <path/to/germany_railjson.json>
    ```

>     I case you have bad *signal* data, you can use the `--generate-signals` option to override the existing signals with automatically generated realistics ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Depending on the area, signals data can be missing or even worse, closed source. If so, the `--generate-signals` option overrides the potential existing signals with automatically generated realistics (french) ones.
```

>     Depending on the area, signals data can be missing. If so, the `--generate-signals` option overrides the potential existing signals with automatically generated realistics (french) ones.

Reviewer 2: which "french" signals? precise the type of signalling that is generated

Author: I opted to add a link to the design doc instead of explain it again here. 80c99ac699c21c339c988830d48a3b28767d2877

> 3. Load railjson (also possible through [a script](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation/osrd/blob/dev/scripts/load-railjson-infra.sh) or OSRD's web interface):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Load the generated railjson, either using [load-railjson-script.sh](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation/osrd/blob/dev/scripts/load-railjson-infra.sh) or OSRD's web interface:
```

    ```sh

>     cargo run --release -- infra import-railjson --generate "Germany" <path/to/germany_railjson.json>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cargo run --release -- infra import-railjson --generate "Germany_OSM" <path/to/germany_railjson.json>
```
